Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all fellow practitioners. Today, our weather is just right—just right
for the wind, just right for the rain,
right, and just right for
the night. That is, everything is just right in
our practice and cultivation.
Today, as is customary every year, on the
morning of the 12th, we Buddhists climb
Bodhi Mountain at Ba Pagoda. This year, due to the
pandemic, the Buddhists have
n't returned to the pagoda yet.
So, only those Buddhists at the pagoda can participate.
Well, today we
have Buddhists at home
practicing along with those at the pagoda.
Respectfully, we
climb the mountain mindfully, in every
step and in the entire operation of our
bodies, which is called mindful bodily action.
Do you understand?
We have mindfulness of body, speech, and mind.
Mindfulness of mind, mindfulness of speech,
mindfulness of body. What is
mindfulness of the mind? I would like
to share my understanding.
Our awareness, in its form, means that
our consciousness clearly perceives
and knows clearly
how the actions of
our body, speech, and mind
flow smoothly.
For example, when
we sit in meditation in
that stillness, we see the flow
of the
delusive thoughts, called delusive consciousness, and how they flow.
We know this.
When we walk, stand, sit, or walk,
we see the changes in our body. The
functioning of the body is called awareness of the
body, and mindfulness includes
awareness as well. That is, we clearly know that
the actions of our body are
good and bring benefit. May
we be blessed with that awareness, which lies within enlightenment.
To achieve enlightenment, we must clearly
know that the actions of our body are good and
are bringing liberation.
For us lay practitioners, this practice of meditation
is difficult.  Because we spend all day
worrying about food, clothing, and money, and dealing with
many other things, it's
difficult for us to be mindful. We
can only achieve good results
when we participate in meditation sessions.
Today, we're going to the mountain to
practice
mindful meditation, focusing on the body, reciting
scriptures, and contemplating the body to become
mindful. So, we're
climbing the mountain with the intention of
hoping for the construction of the stupa at Ba
Vang Pagoda to be completed soon.
That stupa is built to worship the Buddha and the
fundamental scriptures that the Buddha taught,
with the hope that the true Dharma of the Buddha will remain
in the world for a long time. Dear fellow practitioners,
regarding practice, we have
two things to do. First, we
practice the Dharma to bring liberation
to ourselves, and we can
use our words to convey the
Dharma. But we also need to preserve the imprint of the
Dharma for future generations. This is
extremely important, just
like in India before there was a
king.  Venerable V. Duc rebuilt the stone pillars
marking
the sacred sites where the Buddha was
born, attained
enlightenment, preached, entered
Vietnam, and the places he visited and preached.
If it weren't for Venerable
V. Duc, who built these stone pillars to
become historical relics, it would be
difficult for future generations to recognize the Buddha
as a real and existing figure.
Therefore, building
relics of Buddhism is an
act of Bodhicitta,
preserving the Dharma for many
generations to come.
For example, in Vietnam,
we have a very beautiful tradition:
every village in the North has a
temple, which is also a way to preserve Buddhism in the world.
Similarly, for
Ba Vang Temple, the construction of the stupa is
a concern of the master, a wish for
Buddhism to remain in the world for a long time,
and especially, the stupa has
great spiritual value.
With that Buddhist spiritual perspective, it's
very good. With the aspiration that the
Buddha's teachings will be preserved in the world forever
and provide opportunities for many generations
to come, at some point, following the
law of
rise and fall, when our golden temple
is bustling with people practicing
and studying, it's called a period of prosperity. All things
have their convergence and three stages; there is prosperity,
then there will be decline, and then there will be decline,
leaving behind traces, and then there will
be prosperity again. Just like in the
past, at the time of Venerable Tuệ Bích, the
Buddha's teachings were very
prosperous. He helped many monks and nuns, and
he also
practiced and brought medicine to heal
people. He left behind
those traces, which didn't last
many years. Then, because of just
a few stones,
there are traces from
him. And now, the golden temple is flourishing
again, isn't that right? Therefore, the
traces left behind are very
beneficial to future generations, so we
must think about the benefit and happiness of all sentient beings.
The beings we
aspire to serve belong to the vast and
expansive mind. In this practice of anchoring the mountain,
we have two
purposes: firstly, to
cultivate
mindfulness and awareness; secondly, to
leave a
karmic connection for future generations. To
practice Buddhism, we follow the path of our
master and the monks. We aspire to
this, and we see the benefits—it is very beneficial.
These are the two karmic connections that lead
us to practice today.
In the first karmic connection, we cultivate
mindfulness and awareness
in the body, which is mindfulness of the body. This
generates a kind of merit in
meditation.
Currently, besides the dedication of Supreme Enlightenment,
all of us Buddhists, if anyone
has any evil deeds or karmic consequences, we also have the
opportunity to dedicate them to sentient beings,
generating merit. Now, I
will guide you all so that
we know how to keep our minds
truly pure, free from distracting
thoughts and inconveniences. This will deepen our practice when
we practice walking meditation.  This
helps us to raise our level of concentration,
and during that concentration process, distracting
thoughts will arise.
When they arise, we let them go and
continue our journey. We
have two main points of focus: one is mindfulness
on our steps, and the other is
complete mindfulness, observing the
actions of our upper body. That
is, we bow down. Understood?
Now, let me try this for you, dear friends.
Regarding this horizontal mindfulness, when
walking, we start walking with our feet and hands clasped like this.
We only
walk a few steps. Then we release our hands like this. After
three steps,
we shouldn't keep our feet and hands together. 1 2 3 1 2 3. It's
not our feet and hands bowing down.
Understood? If we count 1 2 3,
we are wrong. We count left, right,
right, stop
[music]. That
completes the observation part
of the feet, focusing our mind on the feet. Then we continue
focusing our mind on the hands and the upper body,
bowing down.  We clearly know
each act of bowing, each
action, each movement of
our bowing, then each movement of
our standing up. Is that clear? That's the mental
realization, turn to this side.
Now it's our turn. The right foot steps
first, the left foot first.
[Music] Left, right,
left, stop. That's the foot part done. Then
we bow down again, bow
down, clearly knowing everything. Then we
stand up, and we also
clearly know everything. At some point, when
our arms get tired, we will be in a
position with both hands hanging down like this.
We
step,
right,
left, right,
stand.
[Music] We
bow
down, look
up, let go of the left
hand.
[Music] Right,
left, stand up,
clasp hands. We also clearly know bowing
down,
we also clearly know looking up, we
also clearly know square hands. That's why we
can't go fast, we can't go fast.
If we go fast, we will lose our
concentration. See?
Talking makes us lose our concentration.
So we have another form of concentration, and
that is...  Our path is
bumpy, not like a
flat road. So
when we walk like that,
we also
look at the rocks to see which ones are
suitable for us to step on and which ones are suitable for us to
stand on. Then we have these
mantras, focusing on our body and
focusing on the surroundings, but never letting go of
these mantras. Do you understand?
Our life consists of only
two things:
body and mind, and the external world. As the master always
taught us, we are afflicted by these body, mind, and external
world. It is these body, mind, and external world that
create all suffering and mental anguish for
us. Therefore,
we must purify ourselves from this body, mind, and external world to eliminate these
experiences and attain
happiness. So, as we walk,
when we see any
distracting thoughts appearing
outside of these thoughts, we must
discard them and turn back. Do you understand? That's it.
Completely focusing our attention in this way is very
intense during
our practice. If anyone feels that this
process of focusing is stressful or tiring,
we can shift to something else.
For example,
we can walk like this, then
stand,
bow, and then at
that moment, we
have achieved a state of pure mindfulness.
If each person has their
own karmic forces and worries,
for example, if they are worried about a certain issue,
they can pray that this issue will
be transformed so that they can practice more easily.
Do you understand? Then, with that state of pure mindfulness,
we dedicate it to this small thought,
this mindfulness of bodily actions, this awareness. But
it is within
the second part of our goal
in climbing the mountain. Do you understand? That
is, this bodily action is
within the second thought:
wishing for the
Buddha's teachings to endure in the world for a long time,
wishing for the Bodhisattva to soon attain
enlightenment.  Is that clear? Here we need to
analyze this clearly: if a thief is
aware of the movements of his hands and feet, and
is
conscious of them, but he is not truly
mindful, he is committing an unwholesome act,
so all his actions have
no merit. Do you see
that? However, we are
completely mindful of our bodies because
we are aware of our
movements, our actions, and
their purpose—to benefit and
liberate ourselves, to sow the seeds of
Dharma for future generations.
Therefore, this mindful awareness
of ours generates a great deal of merit.
Do you understand? So,
each movement of each sentient being is
clearly known, but the merit is immense.
If someone is mindful and aware in
this way,
but with a small purpose, the merit is small; if the purpose is
large, the merit is large. That's why it's
called the Bodhi Mind. A great Bodhi Mind generates
immense merit. Do you understand?
And if the Bodhi Mind is small...  Or
simply being mindful to liberate
oneself, then the blessings will be abundant.
Therefore, in
this practice of mindfulness at Mount Đầu Năm, it is also a
very auspicious opportunity for us to
cultivate because it
focuses on the Bodhi Mind and the aspiration for the Buddha
Dharma. That's how it is, and when we
go, we will try to do
this: first step with the right foot,
second step with the left foot.
For example, right, left, right,
stop, left
[music], right, left, stop, right, left, right,
stop. This
adds another layer of mindfulness. That is,
we must remember that
before, the right foot stepped first, now it
's the left foot's turn to step first. That's right,
add mindfulness, not just the whole assembly. So,
we have many forms to help
ourselves become
mindful, and this mindfulness
practice is very
beneficial, especially for people like those around the
age of perfect contemplation and those who are
prone to a type of karma
that manifests itself, which is forgetfulness.  If
we practice like this,
it will help us transform our
karma, making us less
forgetful and absent-minded. It will
help us reach a
higher level of awareness. So, let's
remember that we should follow a rhythm, not a
single direction, not follow a single rhythm. That is,
the rhythms are all the same, with one foot stepping first, and
we are looking for this rhythm,
that rhythm, except in the case where it's a
place where the knee bends, then
we must take two or three rhythms with the same foot,
either the right or the left foot. But
we must clearly understand that.
It's not about being in a state of
unconsciousness, not knowing which foot is
which. Normally, when we walk,
we don't pay attention, do we? We do
n't know which foot steps first,
which foot steps last, or
how the foot is stepping,
do we? But here, we will
practice so that we know what steps are being taken.
When we practice, we will have
that ability, and then later
we can check.  By controlling our
words, we can distinguish between meaningful words that
bring us benefit and happiness, and
words that do not. This
will make it easier to control them. Let's begin. In this
walking meditation, all of us will
clasp our hands and
offer
our heartfelt wishes to the Buddha. Then we will begin
the walking meditation to cultivate a
more upright mind, a more dignified body,
and to develop wisdom within
ourselves. This
wisdom will eliminate afflictions, making
us more alert, more aware, and more mindful. Let
us clasp our hands together and offer our prayers. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha, Namo Amitabha Buddha. We respectfully
ask all Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and Sages to bear
witness
to our prayers. May our
teachers, guiding spirits, and deities support and
assist us.
We, your disciples, respectfully offer our prayers to the Venerable Master
and all the monks on the 19th of
January. Every year, we practice the
Bodhi path with the
aspiration of the Great Bodhi Vow, hoping
that the Buddha Dharma will endure in
the
world for a long time. In this aspiration,
we pray that the Great Bodhisattva will
live a life of complete fulfillment, that the
Buddha will be born in a place of worship where the Buddha and the
scriptures are enshrined, so that the people of the Ten
Directions may come to
worship and be connected with the Buddha Dharma, and that
they may receive blessings, blessings, and merits. And then, in the future, it will be a cause for the Buddha Dharma to flourish in this three realms. This is our way of repaying the Buddha's kindness, repaying the Ancestor's kindness, and achieving Supreme Bodhi. We
humbly request that the Buddhas bear witness to our practice and enlightenment, that
we may direct our
merits towards the unattainable Bodhi, towards our attainment of enlightenment,
and that we may
also dedicate our merits
to all the celestial beings.  The
Dharma Protectors, the Dragon Kings, and
all beings in the
spiritual realm who have a karmic connection with Buddhist practitioners
from many lifetimes and many blessings—whether
good or bad karmic connections
with Buddhist practitioners—now transform those
connections into karmic connections with Dharma women, assisting
each other in their practice until the day of Buddhahood.
We also pray that
our Chrysanthemum Club, practicing diligently and enthusiastically, will be able to
practice according to the Dharma, develop and
spread Buddhist teachings throughout the world,
following the guidance of
the past and the monks of Mahakasyapa Temple,
guiding Buddhist practitioners to increase their blessings,
eliminate negative thoughts,
transform their minds and bodies, and create a
beautiful and auspicious environment for diligent practice and the attainment of the supreme Bodhisattva path. We
pray for the Three Jewels' blessings and the support of all
Dharma Protectors. Now
we will practice meditation on the Bodhi
tree. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni,
Namo Everlasting Buddha Bodhisattva, Namo Buddha. Let
us all go home. Fellow practitioners, please
watch.  The congregation will
practice for about 1-2 minutes, then we will practice
at home. If there are stairs, we will climb the
stairs. If
there are no stairs, or if there are stairs at home,
we
will practice in
our space. We will take three steps
down, then three steps down again. The reason for this is that the
livestream will stop
when there is no signal anymore. Then, the
congregation will practice
and we won't need to watch the livestream
anymore. Later, the second part of the
livestream will be about the scriptures, and we wo
n't be able to
focus on the scriptures so that we can practice together and receive the blessings at the right time. Wishing you all, the congregation, diligence, and the attainment of enlightenment and effective realization. In today's practice, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.